Home Reviews Best in Tech Hands-On View all Reviews Buying Guides Best Wireless Earbuds Best Robot Vacuums Best Laptops Best Gaming Laptops Best Bluetooth Trackers Best Webcams View all Buying Guides Gaming Best Games PlayStation Nintendo Xbox View all Gaming Gear Amazon Apple Google Microsoft Samsung View all Gear Entertainment Movies Music TV YouTube View all Entertainment Tomorrow Space AI Robotics Transportation View all Tomorrow Deals News Video Podcasts Login Sign up Engadget Login Reviews Best in Tech Hands-On View all Reviews Buying Guides Best Wireless Earbuds Best Robot Vacuums Best Laptops Best Gaming Laptops Best Bluetooth Trackers Best Webcams View all Buying Guides Gaming Best Games PlayStation Nintendo Xbox View all Gaming Gear Amazon Apple Google Microsoft Samsung View all Gear Entertainment Movies Music TV YouTube View all Entertainment Tomorrow Space AI Robotics Transportation View all Tomorrow Deals News Video Podcasts Facebook Twitter YouTube Sections Reviews Buying Guides Gaming Gear Entertainment Tomorrow Deals News Video Podcasts Login Sponsored Links 'Switch' is Nintendo's next game console Goodbye NX, hello Switch. Aaron Souppouris | @AaronIsSocial | October 20, 2016 10:04 AM It's been almost a year and a half since Nintendo  announced the NX , and now the gaming giant has finally dropped the codename and secrecy in favor of something more official: Switch. Like the countless  rumors previously asserted , it's indeed a hybrid  mobile and home console  with a tablet element and detachable controllers. 
 The tablet itself (which Nintendo calls "the Switch Console") is thin and pretty attractive. It looks to have a screen measuring around 7 inches, of unspecified resolution. At home, it'll plug into the "Switch Dock," which in turn plugs into your TV. While out and about you can either hold it like a Wii U gamepad or use the built-in kickstand to prop it up. In the trailer, a gamer slides what looks to be a 3DS-style cartridge into the tablet, meaning games are likely to distributed both digitally and physically. 
 It's powered by an  unspecified custom Nvidia Tegra processor , which is "based on the same architecture as the world's top-performing GeForce gaming graphics cards." Whether that means Pascal -- the architecture underpinning the 1000 series of GeForce cards and the yet-to-be-announced Tegra X2 -- or just that Tegra chips in general are based on the GeForce architecture, is not clear. But the question of which SoC is powering the Switch -- and whether it's based on newer or older architecture -- is important to answer if we're to work out what exactly it's capable of. 
  end-legacy-contents  
 The controllers are just as we expected. Nintendo is calling them "Joy-Con." They can be attached to a central unit called the "Joy-Con Grip" to behave like a single game controller, but also slide onto the side of the tablet for a more Wii U-like experience. Oh and, as rumored, they can also be used independently like two miniature gamepads. 
 If none of this sounds like your thing, Nintendo will once again offer a "Pro Controller" option laid out more traditionally. The trailer shows off lots of multiplayer gaming, either with multiple controllers connected to one system, or many Switch consoles connecting together wirelessly. We assume it'll have online play as well. 
 
 Gallery: Nintendo Switch first look  | 12 Photos 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 /12
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Gallery: Nintendo Switch first look  | 12 Photos 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 /12
                             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 So what will you be able to play on it? As well as the usual first-party suspects, Nintendo says it has the support of many developers and publishers, including Activision, Atlus, Bethesda, Capcom, EA, Epic Games, Konami, PlatinumGames, Square Enix, Take-Two and Ubisoft. In the trailer you can see third-party games like  The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim  and  NBA 2K  alongside what look to be a new  Mario  and  Mario Kart  games and  Splatoon . In Nintendo's bold future,  Splatoon  will be an e-sport watched live by tens of thousands of people. 
 "Nintendo Switch allows gamers the freedom to play however they like," Nintendo of America President Reggie Fils-Aime said, "it gives game developers new abilities to bring their creative visions to life by opening up the concept of gaming without boundaries." 
 The Switch will be released worldwide in March 2017. 
 Timothy J. Seppala contributed to this report.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 View All Comments 'Switch' is Nintendo's next game console av gaming mobile nintendo nintendonx nintendoswitch nx switch tablet trailer video zelda About Engadget Masthead About our Ads Advertise Licensing FAQ RSS Feed Sections Reviews Gear Gaming Entertainment Tomorrow The Buyers Guide Video Podcasts Deals Contribute Comment Guidelines Support International 繁體中文 Subscribe to our two newsletters: Engadget Deals  - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals The Morning After  - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter Subscribe Follow Us © 2023 Yahoo. All rights reserved. About Us Reprints and Permissions Suggestions 
 
        Terms  and 
                 
        Privacy Policy Privacy Dashboard Trademarks Advertise About Our Ads